README.md, before:

# **African Explorers** 

## **Contents**

* UX
    * Project Goals
    * User Stories
    * Site Owner Goals
    * User Requirements and Expectations
    * Design Choices
        * Fonts
        * Icons
        * Colours
* Wireframes
    * Features
        * Features that have been implemented
        * Features that will be implemented in the future
    * Technologies
* Testing
* Bugs
* Deployment
* Credit 

---

## **UX (User Experience)** 

### **Project Goals**

The goal of this project is to provide a clear & concise online presence to the fictional business 
African Explorers. African Explorers are a tour operater who specialise in guided safari 
tours in search of the famous big 5 (Lion, Elephant, Rhino, Leopard, Buffalo) in the authenic wilderness of the ..... national park in Southern Africa. 

With the busy modern lives of customers and a high amount of business competition in this area the site needs
to be simple to naviagte with the information on the company & tours provided with as little mouse clicks and scrolling as possible.    

### **User Goals**

* To be able to access the site via various devices (responsive) and to be able to quickley and efficently find out who African Explorers are and what they provide as a service. 
* To be able to easily navigate between pages with clearly defined naviagtion links. 
* To be able to read text on the website clearly and without difficulty. 
* To have a clear call to action for further detailed information. 
* To be able to contact the business via either various communication methods such as contact form, telephone, email address and social media. 
* To be able to see testimonals from previous customers. 
* To be able to see images (proof) of what can be seen on the tours. 
* To have an update of recent wildife sigthings. 
* To have social media links to see further images and ratings. 

### **User Stories**

* As a user I want to be able to access the site either at home on a desktop or on the go with mobile/tablet. 
* As a user I want to be able to leave the site with a solid understanding of African Explorers and what they provide. 
* As a user I want to be able to find information quickley, clearly and with easy to follow navigation. 
* As a user I want to be able to see images and testimonals of the tours. 
* As a user I want to see contact information for the business with telephone, email and a dedicated contact form.
* As a user I want to have links to the companies social media presence to see further images, videos and ratings. 

### **Site Owner Goals**

* As a site owner in this busy modern world I want the site to be straight to the point with information easy to find.
* As a site owner I want clearly labelled navigation links and as little clicking and scrolling as possible for the user to stand out from the competition 
and give the impression that African Explorers are an effiecent and professional company. 
* As a site owner I want to provide a pleasing to the eye site so the user leaves with a good feeling. 
* As a site owner I want to provide images of the tours/animals to fire the users imagination and give them a taste of the wilderness. 
* As a site owner I want to have a scrolling testiomals section of our tours and a recent sightings section to add to user excitement of what could be expected on a tour.  
* As a site owner I want the user to be able to contact us via their preferred communication channel. 

### **User Requirements and Expectations**

#### Requirements

* Navigatable website with a navigation bar/links. 
* To be provided with information on African Explorers and services. 
* Content is clean, clear, visually appealing and easy to find.
* Contact details and dedicated contact form is provided with a submit button and placeholders.  
* To be able to scroll through the testimonals section, created with a bootstrap carousel. 

#### Expectations

* Content is visually clear, consise and appealing. 
* Site can be viewed on any device. 
* Navigation links work correctly and go to the correct parts of the site.
* Navigation links open in a seperate tab. 
* Email links works. 
* Content form is clearly labelled (including placeholders), and submit button works. 

---

## **Design Choices**

The average age of a buying customer for safari travel is 50 years old (actually a drop from 70 over the last 20 years) showing that it is a form of travel most popular with working middle aged professionals. https://bit.ly/2WEPB0P

This was very much on my mind when desiging the site. People of this age are more likely to be busy with work, commutes, and family commitments meaning time is more precious.  Because of this I want the site to be of minilistic design, straight to the point and with key information easily findable with little searching. 
I didn't feel the need for alternative street style fonts & colours which would appeal to a younger auidence for example. 

People of this age group are also likely to be on the move a lot due work & family travel commitements so I have a decided to go with a mobile first design with Bootstrap. 

### **Fonts**

Considering the likely age user group of the website I decided to us Roboto regular 400 as my font as it is "safe", very easy to read, and neutral. I did not think it would be right to go too creative in this case. An interesting articale on safe web fonts - https://websitesetup.org/web-safe-fonts-html-css/

### **Icons**

Icons will be used alongside the text of navigation links to provide further useability. They will be taken from https://fontawesome.com/ and chosen to be self explantory. 


### **Colours**

The colour scheme was chose on the basis that I wanted a simple, clean and visually appealing site that was emotive of colours associated with an African safari. 
![Colours](/assets/colours.png)

* For the navigation bar I will be using 41B45A Green Pantone which is a nice friendly colour and I thought green is the colour most assoicated with nature. 
* Background colour of site will be FAFAFA white to keep it clean and easy to contrast against.  
* When user scroll over navigation links the shade of green will change to 15795B a darker shade of green (Spanish Viridian) to show the highlight to the user which link they will be prressing. 
* For the testimonal and latest sighting sections of the site the background colour will be F2E7CF Champagne which will give the area a subtle highlight to draw attention and is a shade of brown/yellow found on the African plains.
* Text colour throught the site will be black. This was chosen as it easy to read on all collours chosen.

---
## **Wireframes**

To be added soon 

---

## **Features**

Features on the site:

* Header with navigation bar
* Email link within header
* Banner image 
* Images on index.html
* Call to action find out more button
* Scrolling testimonals (carousel)
* Footer with social media links and email link
* Image gallery page 
* About us page
* Recent sightings article 
* Contact form 

---

## **Technologies Used**

### **Languages Used**

* HTML5
* CSS3 
* jQuery 

### **Tools and Libaries**

* Git (Github & Gitpod)
* Bootstrap
* Font Awersome 
* Google Fonts

---

## **Testing**

Further details on this section will be added but the initial testing plan will be to use the follow tools/methods:

* W3C HTML & CSS validation services to check for bugs in HTML/CSS
* Chrome DevTools and inspector to check to test the responsives of the site on different devices.
* A spreadsheet will also be created to test and document the navigation links and loading times on the following browers
    * Safari
    * Chrome
    * Internet Explorer
    * Firefox 
* A site such as https://tools.pingdom.com/ will also be used to test the speed of the site. 
* Bootstap is also being used as it provides in built responsive on a mobile first approach and uses Flexbox instead of CSS grid which is compatiable with more browser (new and old)

---

## **Bugs**

---

## **Deployment** 

African Explorers is built on GitPod using Git and GitHub to host the repository.

Further steps to follow...

---

## **Credits** 

* https://coolors.co/
* Article written by Dennis Pinto on https://www.travelandleisure.com/ about the age of safari travellers
* Code Institue 
* My mentor Simen Daehlin

Commit message:

links added to wireframe images

README.md, after:

# **African Explorers** 

## **Contents**

* UX
    * Project Goals
    * User Stories
    * Site Owner Goals
    * User Requirements and Expectations
    * Design Choices
        * Fonts
        * Icons
        * Colours
* Wireframes
    * Features
        * Features that have been implemented
        * Features that will be implemented in the future
    * Technologies
* Testing
* Bugs
* Deployment
* Credit 

---

## **UX (User Experience)** 

### **Project Goals**

The goal of this project is to provide a clear & concise online presence to the fictional business 
African Explorers. African Explorers are a tour operater who specialise in guided safari 
tours in search of the famous big 5 (Lion, Elephant, Rhino, Leopard, Buffalo) in the authenic wilderness of the ..... national park in Southern Africa. 

With the busy modern lives of customers and a high amount of business competition in this area the site needs
to be simple to naviagte with the information on the company & tours provided with as little mouse clicks and scrolling as possible.    

### **User Goals**

* To be able to access the site via various devices (responsive) and to be able to quickley and efficently find out who African Explorers are and what they provide as a service. 
* To be able to easily navigate between pages with clearly defined naviagtion links. 
* To be able to read text on the website clearly and without difficulty. 
* To have a clear call to action for further detailed information. 
* To be able to contact the business via either various communication methods such as contact form, telephone, email address and social media. 
* To be able to see testimonals from previous customers. 
* To be able to see images (proof) of what can be seen on the tours. 
* To have an update of recent wildife sigthings. 
* To have social media links to see further images and ratings. 

### **User Stories**

* As a user I want to be able to access the site either at home on a desktop or on the go with mobile/tablet. 
* As a user I want to be able to leave the site with a solid understanding of African Explorers and what they provide. 
* As a user I want to be able to find information quickley, clearly and with easy to follow navigation. 
* As a user I want to be able to see images and testimonals of the tours. 
* As a user I want to see contact information for the business with telephone, email and a dedicated contact form.
* As a user I want to have links to the companies social media presence to see further images, videos and ratings. 

### **Site Owner Goals**

* As a site owner in this busy modern world I want the site to be straight to the point with information easy to find.
* As a site owner I want clearly labelled navigation links and as little clicking and scrolling as possible for the user to stand out from the competition 
and give the impression that African Explorers are an effiecent and professional company. 
* As a site owner I want to provide a pleasing to the eye site so the user leaves with a good feeling. 
* As a site owner I want to provide images of the tours/animals to fire the users imagination and give them a taste of the wilderness. 
* As a site owner I want to have a scrolling testiomals section of our tours and a recent sightings section to add to user excitement of what could be expected on a tour.  
* As a site owner I want the user to be able to contact us via their preferred communication channel. 

### **User Requirements and Expectations**

#### Requirements

* Navigatable website with a navigation bar/links. 
* To be provided with information on African Explorers and services. 
* Content is clean, clear, visually appealing and easy to find.
* Contact details and dedicated contact form is provided with a submit button and placeholders.  
* To be able to scroll through the testimonals section, created with a bootstrap carousel. 

#### Expectations

* Content is visually clear, consise and appealing. 
* Site can be viewed on any device. 
* Navigation links work correctly and go to the correct parts of the site.
* Navigation links open in a seperate tab. 
* Email links works. 
* Content form is clearly labelled (including placeholders), and submit button works. 

---

## **Design Choices**

The average age of a buying customer for safari travel is 50 years old (actually a drop from 70 over the last 20 years) showing that it is a form of travel most popular with working middle aged professionals. https://bit.ly/2WEPB0P

This was very much on my mind when desiging the site. People of this age are more likely to be busy with work, commutes, and family commitments meaning time is more precious.  Because of this I want the site to be of minilistic design, straight to the point and with key information easily findable with little searching. 
I didn't feel the need for alternative street style fonts & colours which would appeal to a younger auidence for example. 

People of this age group are also likely to be on the move a lot due work & family travel commitements so I have a decided to go with a mobile first design with Bootstrap. 

### **Fonts**

Considering the likely age user group of the website I decided to us Roboto regular 400 as my font as it is "safe", very easy to read, and neutral. I did not think it would be right to go too creative in this case. An interesting articale on safe web fonts - https://websitesetup.org/web-safe-fonts-html-css/

### **Icons**

Icons will be used alongside the text of navigation links to provide further useability. They will be taken from https://fontawesome.com/ and chosen to be self explantory. 


### **Colours**

The colour scheme was chose on the basis that I wanted a simple, clean and visually appealing site that was emotive of colours associated with an African safari. 
![Colours](/assets/colours.png)

* For the navigation bar I will be using 41B45A Green Pantone which is a nice friendly colour and I thought green is the colour most assoicated with nature. 
* Background colour of site will be FAFAFA white to keep it clean and easy to contrast against.  
* When user scroll over navigation links the shade of green will change to 15795B a darker shade of green (Spanish Viridian) to show the highlight to the user which link they will be prressing. 
* For the testimonal and latest sighting sections of the site the background colour will be F2E7CF Champagne which will give the area a subtle highlight to draw attention and is a shade of brown/yellow found on the African plains.
* Text colour throught the site will be black. This was chosen as it easy to read on all collours chosen.

---
## **Wireframes**

To create my wireframes I uses a software called Balsamiq to create low fidility frames of the site. 
I chose Balsamiq as it is user friendly and allows you to add graphical images which I find very helpful for visuilsing the site. For example the graphics
with the navigation links and the scrolling testimonals really allowed me to get an idea of how the site could look. 

I did find a slight issue with Balsamiq and that was when the desktop wireframes were exported the line under the navigation links was extended to look messy. It should be noted this is not an intentional design. 

As I am buidling this site to be responsive it was very important for me to produce wireframes of desktop, mobile, and tablet. Click on the links below to see in more detail. 

* [Desktop](https://github.com/TobyGreet/African-Explorers/tree/master/wireframes/desktop_wf)
* [Tablet](https://github.com/TobyGreet/African-Explorers/tree/master/wireframes/tablet_wf)
* [Mobile](https://github.com/TobyGreet/African-Explorers/tree/master/wireframes/mobile_wf)

---

## **Features**

Features on the site:

* Header with navigation bar
* Email link within header
* Banner image 
* Images on index.html
* Call to action find out more button
* Scrolling testimonals (carousel)
* Footer with social media links and email link
* Image gallery page 
* About us page
* Recent sightings article 
* Contact form 

---

## **Technologies Used**

### **Languages Used**

* HTML5
* CSS3 
* jQuery 

### **Tools and Libaries**

* Git (Github & Gitpod)
* Bootstrap
* Font Awersome 
* Google Fonts

---

## **Testing**

Further details on this section will be added but the initial testing plan will be to use the follow tools/methods:

* W3C HTML & CSS validation services to check for bugs in HTML/CSS
* Chrome DevTools and inspector to check to test the responsives of the site on different devices.
* A spreadsheet will also be created to test and document the navigation links and loading times on the following browers
    * Safari
    * Chrome
    * Internet Explorer
    * Firefox 
* A site such as https://tools.pingdom.com/ will also be used to test the speed of the site. 
* Bootstap is also being used as it provides in built responsive on a mobile first approach and uses Flexbox instead of CSS grid which is compatiable with more browser (new and old)

---

## **Bugs**

---

## **Deployment** 

African Explorers is built on GitPod using Git and GitHub to host the repository.

Further steps to follow...

---

## **Credits** 

* https://coolors.co/
* Article written by Dennis Pinto on https://www.travelandleisure.com/ about the age of safari travellers
* Code Institue 
* My mentor Simen Daehlin
